=> dieser Text in deutscher Sprache:    Datei "liesmich" <=

************************************************************
*                                                          *
*                     yfonts.sty v1.3                      *
*                                                          *
*    A package for using old german fonts with LaTeX2e     *
*                                                          *
************************************************************
                                              Walter Schmidt
                                      <w-a-schmidt@arcor.de>
                                                  2003-01-08

The macro package "yfonts" provides a LaTeX interface to the
blackletter (old german) fonts designed by Yannis
Haralambous:  Gotisch, Schwabacher, Fraktur and the baroque
initials.

Despite their non-standard encoding, these fonts are fully
integrated into LaTeX's font management (NFSS), and the
package can be used together with german.sty.  A macro is
provided which starts a paragraph with an embedded initial.


LaTeX files
-----------
yfonts.dtx      LaTeX source
yfonts.ins      installation script
frktest.tex     short example


The fonts
---------
The package yfonts.sty supports the following fonts:

ygoth    Gotisch            from <ctan>/fonts/gothic/ygoth
yswab    Schwabacher             <ctan>/fonts/gothic/yswab
yfrak    Fraktur                 <ctan>/fonts/gothic/yfrak
ysmfrak  Fraktur (variant)       <ctan>/fonts/gothic/yfrak
yinitas  initials                <ctan>/fonts/gothic/yinit

It depends on your TeX system, how the above fonts are to be
installed.  This topic is NOT discussed here.

*** WARNING *** WARNING *** WARNING *** WARNING *** WARNING 

The font "ygoth" is known to produce Metafont errors.  In
rare cases such problems have been observed with the other
fonts, too.  This has nothing to do with the package
yfonts.sty, it is due to incorrect Metafont code of the
fonts.  

Questions and bug reports on this problem should be sent 
to Yannis Haralambous <yannis@fluxus-virus.com>, who has
designed the old german fonts.


Installing the LaTeX package
----------------------------
Put the files yfonts.dtx and yfonts.ins into a common
directory.  On a TDS-compliant TeX system, use:

  texmf/source/latex/yfonts

Run LaTeX on yfonts.ins to generate the macro package file
yfonts.sty.  Move it to a directory where TeX searches for
input files; in a TDS compliant system this should be:

  texmf/tex/latex/yfonts

If you have properly set up your docstrip program and the
above directory exists already, this is done automagically!

Run LaTeX on yfonts.dtx to typeset the documentation of the
LaTeX package.  The documentation is written in german, so
you will need german.sty and the german hyphenation
patterns.

Run LaTeX on the example frktest.tex to see an example using
the blackletter fonts; again, german.sty is required.


A short (and incomplete) english guide to yfonts.sty
----------------------------------------------------
The commands \gothfamily, \swabfamily, \frakfamily and
\initfamily switch to Gotisch, Schwabacher, Fraktur or
initials within the current group.

\textgoth{...}, \textswab{...},  \textfrak{...} and 
\textinit{...} typeset their argument using old german 
fonts.

Size changing command are honored; available sizes are 10pt, 
10.95pt, 12pt ... 24.88pt.

There are no further font series or shapes.  You may however
use Schwabacher for emphasizing within a Fraktur
environment, thus following historical practice.

The regular \baselineskip is too large for the old german
fonts; the command \fraklines selects a suitable
\baselineskip for Fraktur or Schwabacher within the current
group; you must repeat it after any size changing command.

Some ASCII symbols are missing (there is e.g. no ";" in the 
Schwabacher font, and none of the fonts has a "@")

A paragraph in Fraktur which starts with an embedded
initial:
 
  {\frakfamily\fraklines
   \yinipar{E}in Absatz ...
   
   \par
  }

\yinipar begins a new paragraph (like \par) and suppresses
indentation (like \noindent).  The end of the paragraph
(blank line or \par) must be within in the same group as the
command \fraklines.

Use the regular LaTeX commands for umlauts, accents and
special symbols.  You may additionally load german.sty.

Important ligatures:

  *a *e *o *u produce a special version of the umlauts with 
  a small e instead of the dots. Load the package with the
  option [varumlaut] to get them with the regular commands,
  like \"a or "a, too.

  s: is the so-called final s

  the sharp s may be produced by \ss, "s or the ligature sz

The command \etc produces a once popular symbol for "etc.";
it is available in the Fraktur font only.


History
-------
v1.3 <2003-01-08> \AA and \aa fixed.

v1.2 <1999-05-12> License agreement changed to LPPL.

v1.2 <1998-09-10> New: \yinipar

v1.1 <1997-09-11>


% finis

